docs: navigation history example (#42980)
electron/electron: docs/tutorial/navigation-history.md

---
title: "Navigation History"
description: "The NavigationHistory API allows you to manage and interact with the browsing history of your Electron application."
slug: navigation-history
hide_title: false
---

> # Navigation History

Author: I think if users are reading this example when its released, they are probably using the new API? Also the deprecation warnings I added should prompt them to switch..

I was going to add something like below but realized that it's kinda redundant with the part right below on accessing NavigationHistory:
**Note:** Since [Electron v32](https://www.electronjs.org/docs/latest/breaking-changes#deprecated-clearhistory-cangoback-goback-cangoforward-goforward-gotoindex-cangotooffset-gotooffset-on-webcontents), navigation-related APIs have been moved to the `navigationHistory` property of `WebContents` to provide a more structured and intuitive interface for managing navigation history.

## Overview

The [NavigationHistory](../api/navigation-history.md) API allows you to manage and interact with the browsing history of your Electron application. This powerful feature enables you to create intuitive navigation experiences for your users.

### Accessing NavigationHistory

> To use NavigationHistory, access it through the [webContents](../api/web-contents.md) of your [BrowserWindow](../api/browser-window.md):

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Navigation history is stored per [`WebContents`](../api/web-contents.md) instance. To access a specific instance of the NavigationHistory class, use the WebContents class' [`contents.navigationHistory` instance property](https://www.electronjs.org/docs/latest/api/web-contents#contentsnavigationhistory-readonly).
```

I think this is a bit clearer since this is not only limited to BrowserWindow APIs but anywhere a `WebContents` instance exists.

```js
const { BrowserWindow } = require('electron')

const mainWindow = new BrowserWindow({ width: 800, height: 600 })
const navigationHistory = mainWindow.webContents.navigationHistory
```

#### Navigating through history

Easily implement back and forward navigation:

```js @ts-type={navigationHistory:Electron.NavigationHistory}
// Go back
if (navigationHistory.canGoBack()) {
  navigationHistory.goBack()
}

// Go forward
if (navigationHistory.canGoForward()) {
  navigationHistory.goForward()
}
```

#### Accessing history entries

> Retrieve and display the user's browsing history:

Author: Great idea! Added at the bottom (line 53)
